The Vice President: Ladies and
gentlemen, I'm Joe Biden.
I'm filling in for
President Obama,
who is abroad.
I want to talk to you
today about the minimum
wage and the overwhelming
need to raise
the minimum wage.
There's no reason in the
world why an American
working 40 hours a week
has to live in poverty.
But right now a worker
earning the federal
minimum wage makes
about $14,500 a year.
And you all know that's
incredibly hard
for an individual to live on,
let alone raise a family on.
But if we raise the
minimum wage to $10.10
an hour, that same worker
will be making $20,200
a year-and with existing tax
credits would earn enough
to bring that family or
a family
of four out of poverty.
But there's a lot of good
reasons why raising
the minimum wage makes sense.
Not only would it put more
hard-earned money into
the pockets of 28 million
Americans, moving millions
of them out of poverty,
it's also good for business.
And let me tell you why.
There's clear data that
shows fair wages generate
loyalty of workers to
their employers,
which has the benefit of
increasing productivity
and leading to less turn over.
It's really good for the
economy as a whole because
raising the minimum
wage would generate
an additional $19 billion
in additional income
for people who need
it the most.
The big difference between
giving a raise
in the minimum wage instead of
a tax break
to the very wealthy is the
minimum wage worker will
go out and spend every penny of
it because they're
living on the edge.
They'll spend it in
the local economy.
They need it to pay their
electric bill,
put gas in their automobile, to
buy fundamental necessities.
And this generates
economic growth
in their communities.
And I'm not the only one
who recognizes
these benefits.
Companies big and small
recognize it as well.
I was recently in Atlanta,
Georgia, and met the owner
of a small advertising
company,
a guy named Darien.
He independently raised
the wages of his workers
to $10.10 an hour.
But large companies, as
well, Costco
and the Gap-they're choosing to
pay their
employees higher starting wages.
A growing list of
governors are also raising
wages in their states
- the minimum wage.
They join the President
who raised the minimum
wage for employees of
federal contractors like
the folks serving our
troops meals on our bases.
They're all doing this
for a simple reason.
Raising the minimum wage
will help hardworking
people rise
out of poverty.
It's good for business.
It's helpful to the
overall economy.
And there's one more
important benefit.
Right now women make up
more than half
of the workers who would benefit
from increasing
the minimum wage.
Folks, a low minimum wage
is one of the reasons why
women in America make only
77 cents on a dollar that
every man makes.
But by raising the minimum
wage, we can close that
gap by 5 percent.
And it matters.
It matters to a lot of
hardworking families,
particularly moms raising
families
on the minimum wage.
And one more thing,
folks-it's what the
American people
want to do.
Three out of four
Americans support raising
the minimum wage.
They know this is the
right and fair thing
to do, and the good thing
to do for the economy.
So it's time for Congress
to get behind the minimum
wage bill offered by
Tom Harkin of Iowa
and Congressman George Miller
of California-the proposal
that would raise the
federal minimum wage
from $7.25 an hour to
$10.10 an hour.
So ask your
representatives who oppose
raising the federal
minimum wage-why
do they oppose it?
How can we look at the men
and women providing basic
services to us all, like
cleaning our offices,
caring for our children,
serving in our restaurants
and so many other
areas-how can we say
they don't deserve enough
pay to take them
out of poverty?
The President and I
think they deserve it.
And we think a
lot of you do too.
So, folks, it's
time to act.
It's time to give
America a raise.
Thanks for listening and
have a great weekend.
God bless you all and may
God protect our troops.